We don't have the endpoints server
side and we have in api.js,
we have defined the calls
to those endpoints but
we are not calling the API yet.
So let's try to understand the flow.
So I'm going to use a very old method,
okay?
Of doing event binding with Java Script
that is using directly the HTML event.
Of course, we can use add event
listener API if you want, but
I wanna focus here in the form directly.
As I mentioned before,
there are a lot of developers out there.
They're just doing something like this,
like on onclick,
they are calling auth.login,
a function that we need to create, okay?
But that's not a good idea.
I mean it's gonna work, and
in most password managers it will work but
it's much better instead of doing this,
it's much better to go and
add onsubmit over the form.
Does anyone know
the differences between or
the advantages of using submit on
the form instead of click on the button?
Does anyone know?
>> All the form data gets sent.
>> All the form data gets sent but
that's only if you're are getting out
of the single page application, but
you will see that I will keep myself
under a single page application.
So actually we are going to
prevent the form to be submitted.
But by the way,
that also happens with the button because
the button by default is type submit.
So it will happen also on the click.
So it will happen anyway.
Yeah.
>> Is there a specific event type for
form submits that is different and
distinct from button click?
>> Yep.
So these events is not
something I'm creating.
It does exist and
it has existed since probably 98,
something like that
>> Which means that you should utilize
that onsubmit event from
the form because most tooling,
including password managers would be
designed to be triggered from form submits
as opposed to normal button clicks?
>> That's one possible advantage.
So that means that actually if you
are using a password manager and you
are selecting a username from there, you
want that selection to trigger submission.
Yeah?
>> Largely driven for accessibility
because there are multiple ways
that you can ask the form to be submitted.
You could hit the Enter key or
through some other command,
not just clicking the button but-
>> Yeah, that's one of the reasons.
What happens if I'm using
the Enter key in the form, right?
Or if I have a virtual
keyboard on an iPhone.
So I'm typing and
I'm using the Return key.
So if you're just listening for
the click event of a button,
you might not have that
situation when you use the key.
Or for example if you're just telling
a voice assistant hey, submit the form.
It's not actually click on the button.
So it's always a good idea to do this.
I'm going to pass an event, the event
that we'll receive as an argument
because one of the things that we
are going to do is prevent this form to be
submitted with standard,
classic, multi-page solutions.
We're going to keep this within
the same page navigation so
that's why I'm passing the event, okay?
So I'm going to do something
similar on the registration form.
So onsubmit,
I'm going to call Auth.register and
I'm going to pass the event.
And now we need to go and create
the register and the login functions
within the Auth event that we
have in the auth.js file, okay?
Make sense?
Again, if you want to use other event
binding mechanisms, that's fine.
And if you of course if
you're using any library,
it's going to be different how
you're going to do this connection.
If you're using React.jsx or
if you're using Vue.js,
it will change that but
the whole idea works.
Remember that everything that we
are doing here in vanilla.js can be
adaptive to any library because we
are using or we will use during the rest
of the day just client side browser
APIs that can be used from any library.
So now back in Auth JS,
so then I can add here
the register functions that
again I can use this syntax or
I can use colon, event and
then our function.
It's up to you.
It's exactly the same, okay?
If you want to be more compatible
with all the browsers,
maybe their syntax will work better.
They have a function syntax, so
we use colon and arrow function.
I know that when you're
using a transpiler,
you typically don't care about that, okay?
But here we are not using a transpiler,
why?
We are directly brave
JavaScript developers, so
we are directly executing our ECMA
script code directly in the browser.
But if you want the other APIs, it's okay.
If you want the other syntax, it's okay.
So the first thing,
let's start with register.
The first thing is to prevent default.
So event.preventDefault will
actually prevent the browser from
being submitted to the server
I've seen that PHP error, okay?
Where you're sending directly an HTTP
navigation to the server, okay?
Because this is a single page application.
And then I'm going to create that user
object taking the value from the form.
I can use the form data API or just plain
get element by ID or query selector, okay?
Whatever you prefer.
GetElementById and I'm taking from
the register form the name and the value.
Then we have the email and the password.
Register email and the same for password.
Those are the three input
types that I have here.
The trailing comma is fine.
And then with that, I can call my API.
So I can await API.resister
passing that user as an argument.
And because this is promise based,
when I use await,
I need to I async to my register function.
So I can use async await.
So I'm taking the response and
if we want for now,
we can do a console log for
the response chart for the first step.
So then we can see if
something's happening, okay?
And something actually pretty similar
has to be done on the login event.
So it's prevent default as well, because
it's another form, a different form.
By the way as we mentioned before,
it's a very good idea to have two
different HTML forms when it's
a single page application.
If you use the same form,
password managers will get a difficult
time to work properly, okay?
So it's much better to
have complete separate
forms when you are sharing those
forms in the same HTML, okay?
When in the same DOM.
Even if they're not both at
the same time in the DOM, okay?
So it's a good idea to
use different forms.
And if they have different IDs,
even better.
So after, this I'm going to
create also my credential.
I can call your user your credentials.
That is just the email and the password.
So I'm going to be similar to the previous
one so just I'm not taking it from
the register form but from the login
form and it was email and password.
So I'm creating this object
that we are passing through
post through HTTP To
the server login_password.
And in this case, I'm also going to
get the response and waiting for
API login with those credentials
that they have a typo.
So I'm solving the typo like that.
And again for now,
I'm going to do console log response.
And because I've used await,
I also need to async join function.
Okay, make sense?
So that's the first step.
Now we will see what to do with
when we have the response.
Okay, but maybe it's time to try these
because so far, we haven't tested this, so
anything can happen.
So girls your fingers.
By the way,
of course you can use postman or
any other tool first to actually
check your web services.
And the idea here is to try this and
because I have already my server running,
and this server is using Nodemon,
it's taking automatically my changes so
I don't need to stop the server or
run the server again.
So we can go and directly use this.
So I'm going to go back here.
So I'm going to just refresh
the browser just in case.
So if I try any email address like
email@email.com with any password,
remember I'm not validating anything here
and if I try and hit continue, okay?
We can just try to open the console.
So here I can try to log in
with any password, continue and
I am getting a response from the server
saying credentials are wrong.
So well at least we have something, okay?
So we can try to register
a new account first, and
here you can see that first when
I'm trying to change the page,
the password manager says hey,
you're changing the page.
So is that a confirmation of a login?
Maybe, so
do you want to save these credentials?
Maybe it's not the case so
I will say no, not now.
But you can see that when the page
changes, even if it's the single page
application when there was a push a state,
that was the moment where the password
manager said hey, maybe we don't
have those credentials stored.
Do you wanna save them?
Well anyway,
I'm going to register an account.
So I'm going to use my name Max,
just because we're going to take
advantage of not having
strong validation so far.
I'm going to create an email m@m.com,
okay?
Just for faster typing,
I can use my strong password
suggestion which is fine or not.
It's up to you.
Remember the first time you do that in
your browser because it's a clean browser
that I'm using, it's saying hey, we should
save this, so maybe you need to log in.
So we are going to save
this under your account or
we can just use any password, okay?
I'm going to use any passwords such as
Frontendmasters, okay?
So you don't see that of course.
If I register my account,
it says okay true.
So it seems like my flow worked.
How can I check if this works?
Well, I can go back to my code, to my
project, and try to find the database.
And the file is there, auth.json.
If I open that, I have my object.
I have an array of users and
Max is there and
you can see the password
is not in plain text.
I cannot see the password, it's hashed.
So this is the hash that
I can take from here and
try to see if I have
a database of hashes or
if I can try to find which password
belongs to that hash, okay?
So it's not 100% secure, but at least
someone that is opening this file,
someone that has access for
five minutes in the server and
is opening the file will not
see the password easily, okay?
So it's one step, okay?
So the register is working.
So let's see the login.
Now I can save my password, okay?
So this is the time where you
decide to save the password, okay?
Do you have a password?
I can say yes, I can say no,
it's up to you.
And now if I try to log in,
it was m.m.com.
Let's try first, any password.
I'm getting credentials
wrong at the bottom.
Remember that also if
I have a wrong email,
I'm getting the same message,
the same credentials are wrong.
And if everything works
fine like frontendmasters,
continue, I'm getting okay true,
my name and my email.
So, registration and
login processes are working.
I just need to adjust the UI.
So if I can see that on the screen.